Improve rosetta docs (#727)
o1-labs/docs2: docs/exchange-operators/rosetta/build-from-sources.mdx

---
title: Building from sources
description: Build Mina’s implementation of Rosetta API from sources.
keywords:
  - historical data
  - blockchain integration
  - explorer
  - wallet
  - archive node
  - graphQL
  - rosetta
  - nix
---

# Building and running Rosetta from source code

> In the [previous article](run-with-docker) we described the Docker cointainer, that runs mina daemon, mina-archive and Rosetta API. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [Running with Docker](run-with-docker), you learned that the Docker container runs the mina daemon, mina-archive, and Rosetta API. 
```

Reviewer: thanks for this PR, here's some resources you can rely on https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/wiki/Docs-Style-Guide 

- instead of "we" third person, docs style is to use second person "you" pronoun 
- instead of "previous article", use descriptive link text
- we love the serial comma!

> If you already have mina-archive up and running, you can also build and run Rosetta API natively and wire it to existing mina daemon and archive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have mina-archive up and running, you can also build and run the Rosetta API natively and wire it to the existing mina daemon and mina-archive.
```

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip
```

> To run mina daemon and archive natively, follow instructions on the [Archive Node page](node-operators/archive-node)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run mina daemon and mina-archive natively, follow the [Archive Node page](node-operators/archive-node) instructions.
```

Reviewer: suggest using the same terminology for all references to "archive"

:::

> The easiest way to build Rosetta natively is to use Nix development environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to build Rosetta natively is to use the Nix development environment.
```

> 1. Clone the official [mina repository](https://github.com/MinaProtocol/mina.git) and switch to the `compatible` branch
> 
> 2. If you don't already have Nix on your machine, install it following steps described in the `nix/README.md` [file in the mina repository](https://github.com/MinaProtocol/mina/blob/develop/nix/README.md)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Clone the official [mina repository](https://github.com/MinaProtocol/mina.git) and switch to the `compatible` branch.

2. If you don't already have Nix on your machine, install it following the steps in the [nix/README.md](https://github.com/MinaProtocol/mina/blob/develop/nix/README.md).

```

3. Run the `./nix/pin.sh` script to enable submodules to be available to the build:

    ./nix/pin.sh

4. Launch the development shell:

>     nix develop mina

Reviewer: this Markdown syntax seems to work, if you want to follow the established style, apply the syntax described in https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/wiki/Markdown-Syntax#numbered-steps

Author: @barriebyron it doesn't work when numbered steps are interrupted with code snippets

but I willl change it in another places. Thank you

Reviewer: fwiw @qwadratic auto-numbering does work, even with code snippets 
https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/wiki/Markdown-Syntax#numbered-steps 

TLDR;  indent snippets

> To generate an ordered list, start each step with 1. so that each step automatically increments numbering. Auto-numbering is respected only when the content under a step is indented (2 or 4 spaces; in IDE such as VS Code, press the tab key).
> 
> The indentation for numbered steps is required to position the content under each step and to keep the auto-numbering in step.

5. Build Rosetta app:

    dune build --profile=mainnet src/app/rosetta

> 6. After a succesful build, the Rosetta app is available here: `_build/default/src/app/rosetta/rosetta.exe` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. After a successful build, the Rosetta app is available here: `_build/default/src/app/rosetta/rosetta.exe` 
```
